in this lesson i want to talk about
service lifecycle in azure
a key point about the cloud is this
constant innovation this pace of change
you'll hear terms like evergreen because
there's always these new capabilities
and features being added there are new
services being created there are new
features to existing services constantly
being added
now these new capabilities often don't
just appear
just like anything else they have to be
tested if you think about devops there's
feedback cycles
and so as you have these new
capabilities there's obviously internal
sets of testing going on
within teams at microsoft
and then for some of the time they want
to make it available but they want to
make it available to a subset of chosen
customers
so what then you might see is this idea
of a preview
but it's private
so here this is a limited
set of customers
these might be chosen
it might be you can apply to be part of
it
you're going to have a private preview
next there's often the idea of a public
preview
so in a public preview as the name
suggests
pretty much anyone can go and
participate so this is open
now maybe you still have to opt in there
might be you need to go into your
subscription and say hey i want to
enable this particular feature
if you hop over to the portal
if i was to go and look at my
subscription
one of the things we have in our
subscriptions
is this idea
of previews so right now you can see
here
preview features
so i could go to my preview features
and at this point i could go in i'll see
all the different uh preview features
that are available
and i might say oh i want to use this
one so i could select it and then i
would go ahead and hit register
and there may be a certain portion of
time now there were some types of
preview where there's maybe commands i
have to run and the documentation will
walk through these
additionally if they are in preview
there's actually a preview version of
the portal
so i'm right now in the regular portal
but if i hop over to this other tab if
you look at the url
you'll notice it's
preview.portal.azure.com
so the emphasis here is this edition of
the preview word
and in the title we see it saying
preview as well
so some types of preview
may require us to use this preview
portal
to light up the various pieces of
functionality
sometimes
they'll even give you a specific url
because it's a special version of the
portal that has a certain flag that
lights up that feature in the portal
sometimes when things are in preview it
may not be in the portal i use the azcli
or powershell to utilize that
and then once it's gone through all of
these phases
well then it becomes generally
available
i.e it is g
a
so now it's a public feature and at this
point this is where things like sla will
be available this is where things like
support will be available while they're
in preview sometimes they're free
sometimes they'll reduce cost there's
typically not an sla if the service is
free there's never an sla there can't be
a financially backed guarantee if you're
not paying for it
but often support is not available
now sometimes when i'm in public preview
even private
if it's a specific feature that might
start to work with a customer there may
be an agreement around adding support
for that so that can vary
but typically the way this is going to
work is until it hits generally
available iga
there's no sla and there's not typical
production level support for that so
that's the the key point
about that
now
if that's the flow so as features are
added
it's
that's the path
now the other reason for this is not
just testing
a big part of this is all about feedback
so a key thing that happens is the
reason microsoft do these previews is
not just a test does it work
it's
is this the functionality the customer
wants is it behaving in the way the
customer wants so sometimes with that
feedback it may go back and there'll be
different versions of that and if you
look at the portal
even in the regular portal
if i go not to the preview version
if you look at the top
there's this feedback icon
and that enables you to give feedback to
microsoft
so you can give it are you satisfied are
you unhappy tell me about it and you can
even say hey microsoft can email me and
you can submit the feedback this is how
i can drive feedback no matter where i
am in the portal about what i'm seeing
but again this is not aimed at
something's broken you should raise a
support ticket for that this is about
hey feedback as to what is the actual
experience
now how do you know how do you know if
there is some new feature
and a great way to find out is microsoft
has a blog where they talk about these
are all the new updates to azure if we
jump over
we can see there's the azure updates
page so what we're looking at here is
azure.microsoft.com
updates
and they basically put a note of all the
features that they add
over various pieces of time
now things like azure id updates are not
added here they're in a separate
location
and what i actually do is on my youtube
channel this might be useful
is every week on sunday i publish an
azure update
so you can actually scroll down and
there's my azure infrastructure update
so every single week
i go through what all of the last
changes are explaining what they are how
they work why you want to use it so that
can be a really good way to stay up to
date as i talked about before i post a
lot of videos on my channel
normally three videos a week i do deep
dives other things but that's another
great way
you can stay up to date on what's
happening
in azure